Add Advanced Sections to documentation (#104)
slackapi/bolt-python: docs/_advanced/lazy_listener.md

---
title: Lazy listeners (FaaS)
lang: en
slug: lazy-listeners
order: 9
---

<div class="section-content">
⚠️ Lazy listener functions are a beta feature to make it easier to deploy Bolt for Python apps to FaaS environments. As the feature is developed, Bolt for Python's API is subject to change.

Typically you'd call `ack()` as the first step of your listener functions. Calling `ack()` tells Slack that you've received the event and are handling it in within reasonable amount of time (3 seconds).

> However, apps running on FaaS or similar runtimes that don't allow you to run threads or processes after returning an HTTP response cannot follow this pattern. Instead, you should set the `process_before_response` flag to `true`. This allows you to call ack() and handle the event in seperate threads or processes. For events that do not require acknowledgement, you can create the listener as you normally would.

Reviewer: Please improve the wordings but the latter half is not correct. As mentioned in the original version, `process_before_response` doesn't let you free from 3-second timeouts in both Bolt JS and Python. It just holds off sending HTTP responses until the function completes.
```suggestion
However, apps running on FaaS or similar runtimes that don't allow you to run threads or processes after returning an HTTP response cannot follow this pattern. Instead, you should set the `process_before_response` flag to `True`. While this allows you to run your app on FaaS, the app still has the limitation to complete everything within 3 seconds.
```

> Rather than acting as a decorator, lazy listeners take two keyword args:

Reviewer: Then, we can mention why you should use `lazy` in the case. The original one says `To deal with this possible timeout issue, you can use `ack` and `lazy` functions for a listener.` but something similar is fine.

Author: Is this accurate now?

Reviewer: Thanks, it looks almost done. I added a suggestion above.

> However, apps running on FaaS or similar runtimes that don't allow you to run threads or processes after returning an HTTP response cannot follow this pattern. Instead, you should set the `process_before_response` flag to `True`. This allows you to create a listener that calls `ack()` and handles the event in seperate threads or processes, though you still need to complete everything within 3 seconds. For events that do not require acknowledgement, you can create listeners as you normally would.

Reviewer: How about changing this way? Technically, it uses a thread internally but the more important point here is that process_before_response guarantees the completion of all the processes in a listener. Also, please polish the sentence for Events API. (NOTE: this is not Bolt Python specific - Bolt JS has the same limitation)

```suggestion
However, apps running on FaaS or similar runtimes that don't allow you to run threads or processes after returning an HTTP response cannot follow this pattern. Instead, you should set the `process_before_response` flag to `True`. This allows you to create a listener that calls `ack()` and handles the event safely, though you still need to complete everything within 3 seconds. For events, while a listener doesn't need `ack()` method call as you normally would, the listener needs to complete within 3 seconds, too.
```

* `ack: Callable`: Responsible for calling `ack()`
* `lazy: List[Callable]`: Responsible for handling any time-consuming processes related to the event. The lazy function does not have access to `ack()`.
</div>

```python
app.command("/start-process")(
    # ack() is still called within 3 seconds
    ack=respond_to_slack_within_3_seconds,
    # Lazy function is responsible for processing the event
    lazy=[run_long_process]
)
```

<details class="secondary-wrapper">
<summary class="section-head" markdown="0">
<h4 class="section-head">Example with AWS Lambda</h4>
</summary>

<div class="secondary-content" markdown="0">

> This example deploys the code to [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/), but lazy listener functions work well in most FaaS enviornments. There are more examples within the [`sample` folder](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/tree/main/adapter).

Reviewer: Other platforms are not yet supported. This feature works with built-in adapters, all non-FaaS adapters, and AWS Lambda at this point.
```suggestion
This example deploys the code to [AWS Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/). There are more examples within the [`sample` folder](https://github.com/slackapi/bolt-python/tree/main/adapter).
```
